# Sorsevari

## Description

To the practical wizard, the components of a spell are little more than a requisite to the desired affect. To the metallic urdragons of Rhenovaar, however, every aspect and element of magic was due rigorous study. With an insight that has become the stuff of legend, the silver dragon Panini developed (or as some contend, divined) Sorsevari, _the_ language of arcane magic. Sorsevari was specifically developed to flow in tune with the ebbing rhythm of arcane energies. While other languages have historically sufficed to cast spells (a phenomena not yet fully understood), Sorsevari is regarded as possessing the perfect phonology and syntax to articulate spellcraft. 

The characteristics of Sorsevari are heavily influenced by the physiology of the metallic dragons. As metallic dragons possessed deft left-dominant hands, the script of Sorsevari is written from right to left, in a cursive with diacritic vowels. Metallic dragons were meticulous in representing letters with the proper proportions, and in order for magic items realized in a written form to function at their best, Sorsevari must be perfectly displayed. For some spells, the Major Sigil is Sorsevari script arranged in a particular shape, embellished with additional arcane marks.

Unlike their chromatic kin, metallic dragons possess only one row of front teeth. Sorsevari then has a wider range of sounds, several of which are not present in the common languages. The split-tongue fricatives are the only syllables that cannot be fully emulated by most mortal races (although some spell-casters have been known to cleft their tongues expressly for this purpose).

Additionally, Sorsevari possesses a unique grammar. It lacks anything truly equivalent to verbs, nouns, adjectives, or adverbs. Instead, it possesses special words that establish _relations_ between other words. These special words precede what they relate, and the position of subsequent word-phrases indicate the ordering of the relation. Relations can become like nouns when related to the _Shunya_, the "unitary relation" that itself takes no additional arguments. Specific particles establish other necessary pieces of grammatical information, such as tense, rearranged phrase orderings, and even [evidentiality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evidentiality).

Nontrivial relations in Sorsevari are created dynamically from a list of some 2000 root relations using a particular constructive linguistic process. This allows Sorsevari to closely approximate the category of the metaphysical where a precisely descriptive word may not have previously existed. The most exotic of these constructed relations can be well over a dozen syllables long, however, nearly all of them have disappeared from the body of accessible arcane literature. For some groups, especially the Zindibadi Gnomes, full recovery of silver-age Sorsevari represents an ongoing archaeological project.

Due to the difficulty in learning Sorsevari, in the modern age, the language has become the hallmark of particular regional caster castes, or at the very least, it distinguishes one as extremely learned in the arcane arts. Its instruction is often jealously guarded, and its mere utterance often portends the coming of one immensely powerful.

## Mechanics

Sorsevari interacts in the world of Rhenovaar in the following ways:

1. Casting Mastery - without knowledge of Sorsevari (or a language of equivalent arcane tradition, such as Chandra Elvish), a caster is limited in the spells they can successfully articulate. In order to cast spells of caster-level four or higher, knowledge of Sorsevari (or another equivalent language) is necessary.
2. Linguistic Feat - although Sorsevari is easily recognizable throughout the world, to learn it fully requires considerable time and effort. Its grammar and pronunciation is utterly incomparable to the common languages, even properly pronouncing some of its more unusual letters requires a teacher's critique. For this reason, Sorsevari cannot be learned through the expenditure of Skill Points, but only through acquiring the **Comprehend Sorsevari** Feat. Such training also enables the caster to properly prepare sigils in the Quaternary Style (the geometric style of metallic dragons endowed with three claws and an opposable fourth).
3. Forbidden School - for reasons not fully understood, the metallic dragons never became masters of magics concerning life and death. The arcane tradition of Sorsevari, therefore, cannot be employed to cast any spells in the school of Necromancy. Draksh, the language of the chromatic dragons, holds the longest tradition of necromantic magics.
